When a car is pointed like this and it moves forward by D meters,
its X and Y coordinates both increase by an amount that's
greater than zero but less than D. Now,
if we're going to make scatter plots of position data,
we need to know exactly what the values of delta X and delta
Y are and this will require some trigonometry,
which is the mathematics of right triangles,
so it's not surprising that our first step is to find a right triangle.
And the right triangle I want to identify is right here.
And I know it's a right triangle because two of the sides meet at a right angle.
And what's amazing about trigonometry is this,
if you give me an actual numeric value for D in this angle,
which I'm going to call theta,
I can tell you exactly what delta X and delta Y will be.
But before we solve this for any angle and
any displacement we're going to start with some very specific values.